# History of Our Ministry

The original vision for this ministry was a school, **The Carpenter's Academy**, for the children at a rural church in West Virginia. Unlike many Christian educational institutions, this one would  focus on unique learning needs, inclusive special education. But then the vision grew.

More like metamorphosed.

Gabrielle Baker, founder and president, shares:

> Since October 2018, I have been researching, planning, building, writing, dreaming about this project. Along the way, I've hit more than a few walls; but I never fully lost sight of the dream. Three years later in the fall of 2021, I joined a school leadership program. I started considering technology integration, and even a virtual school. I tried to launch a homeschool support group. I considered licensing curriculum to small Christian schools. 
>
> Then in October 2022, I attended a Bible conference that changed my whole trajectory. That weekend the question dawned on me...
>
> *What does the Seventh-day Adventist Church do for orphans in the United States?*
>
> The answer: **Not much.**
>
> In the presentation below, I share a little more of my story and why this question hit me so hard. But I knew in that moment that I wanted to do something to show up as a Sabbath-keeping Christian in this space. My mantra of late has been Isaiah 58. This was Christ's work:
>
> 
>
> > **"Now the work that is before us we want clearly to understand. It is a work of mercy, a work of love, a work just in Christ's lines. Just as Christ worked."** (5MR 37.1)
> >
> > **"Jesus became 'the repairer of the breach, the restorer of paths to dwell in.' He became an exile to earth to bring back the one lost, straying sheep, the one world ruined by sin."**  (ST July 31,  1884, par. 14)
> >
> > **"The object of our mission is the same as the object of Christ's mission. Why did God send His Son to the fallen world? To make known and to demonstrate to mankind His love for them."**  (MM 24.4)
>
> 
>
> So I'm changing the name to **THE CARPENTER'S MISSION**, to reflect the broader vision of this new direction. And I'm inviting you on my journey as I refine this vision and find out what it takes to make it happen.



To learn more about how this dream emerged, how God has been making preparations for this work, and a glimpse of the dream itself, [watch this presentation](https://threads.com/34522487847?s=g1H2VkpiGWiqKv23rGr1tA).

<iframe src="https://threads.com/34522487847?s=g1H2VkpiGWiqKv23rGr1tA&embed=true" width="1300px" height="800px" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen>Loading...</iframe>

