# Governance

As a nonprofit corporation, The Carpenter's Mission has a board of directors, which serves as the highest leadership body of the organization.

> A board is:

> - a group who meet regularly to look at the performance and strategic progress of the company
> - a group who can separate themselves from the day-to-day operations and take a birds-eye view of the business
> - a group who can debate the difficult issues and come out with a clear decision for the future of the company
> - ultimately, a group who guides, and is committed to, the company.

> -- [The New Zealand Institute of Directors](https://www.iod.org.nz/FirstBoards/What-is-a-board)



The initial board was hand-selected by the organization's founder. Then, after conducting a skills audit, those board members nominated other prospective candidates. The TCM board meets monthly via teleconferencing, and collaborates together on [software platform to be determined] between meetings.



Our board has three primary areas of responsibility:

- **Duty of Care**: Take care of the nonprofit by ensuring prudent use of all assets, including facility, people, and good will;
- **Duty of Loyalty**: Ensure that the nonprofit's activities and transactions are, first and foremost, advancing its mission; Recognize and disclose conflicts of interest; Make decisions that are in the best interest of the nonprofit corporation; *not in the best interest of the individual board member* (or any other individual or for-profit entity).
- **Duty of Obedience**: Ensure that the nonprofit obeys applicable laws and regulations; follows its own bylaws; and that the nonprofit adheres to its stated corporate purposes/mission.

In addition to these legal and fiduciary duties, the board is also responsible for

* determining the mission of the organization and understanding its collective purpose
* selecting, supporting, and evaluating the performance of the chief executive
* strategic and organizational planning
* fundraising and resource development
* approving and monitoring the organization’s programs and services
* enhancing the organization’s public image



The board balances opportunity and risk, working on behalf of volunteers, employees, donors, and all TCM stakeholders to guide and support the management of the corporation and the fulfilling its mission.
